Questions For Investigation

1. What is our independent variable? What is our dependent variable?

Our independent variable is the condition of the word(e.i. congruent words or incongruent words) and the dependent variable is the time it takes by the individuals to name the ink colors in equaly-sized lists. 

2. What is an appropriate set of hypotheses for this task? What kind of statistical test do you expect to perform? Justify your choices

An appropriate set of hypotheses are:
H0(hypothesis null): The condition of the word does not affect the time it takes for the individuals to name the ink colors(The time of the first and second column are the same). 
H0: Time for reading incongruent words - Time for reading congruent Words = 0
H1(alternative hypothesis): The incongruent conditions reduce the reading performance of individuals comparing to congruent conditions.(A list with incongruent words require a longer time for reading comparing to a list with only congruent words.)
H1: Time for reading incongruent words - Time for reading congruent Words > 0
The statistical test we should perform is Pre-test, Post-test, dependent-samples t-test and one-tailed test. In this experiment, the same sample of people has made the same test with two different circunstances(measuring the time to read a list with only congruent words and other with only incongruent words). Moreover, we don't know any population parameters, what indicates the necessity of using t-tests. Finally, the option for one-tailed test occurs due to the alternative hypotheses voiced, stating that the incongruent condition might INCREASE the time for reading the list.

3. Report some descriptive statistics regarding this dataset. Include at least one measure of central tendency and at least one measure of variability.

Mean    7,964791667
Median  7,6665
Standard Deviation  4,86482691
Variance    23,66654087
Cohen's 1,637219949
r^2 0,258559773

4. Provide one or two visualizations that show the distribution of the sample data. Write one or two sentences noting what you observe about the plot or plots.





5. Now, perform the statistical test and report your results. What is your confidence level and your critical statistic value? Do you reject the null hypothesis or fail to reject it? Come to a conclusion in terms of the experiment task. Did the results match up with your expectations?

For a confidence level of alfa = 0.0005 and degrees of freedom = 23:
Considering a one-tailed test, according to what it was stated in the first: answer:
t critic = 3.768
t = 8.021
Once the t value is lower then it t critic, we should refuse the null hypothesis with a confidence level of alfa = 0.0005. Indeed the presence of incongruent words hurts  the performance of the individuals that read the ink used in which word, as it is expected on before hand(since the first time I have tried to do, I had this impression). This performance of individuals is a construct variable that is measured using the time necessary to finish saying each of the inks used in a list of words.


6. Optional: What do you think is responsible for the effects observed? Can you think of an alternative or similar task that would result in a similar effect? Some research about the problem will be helpful for thinking about these two questions!